# Linear-Algebra
# The start of a book for the not-so-gifted
Math topics using python,long-hand work, and other tools

Introduction
Just because I enjoy math doesn't mean that I am any good at it.

I am not gifted at math. It is fun. Not so much a chore for me, except when I can't figure something out. When I cannot come up with a proper calculated solution. I don't mind not knowing something. After all, I'm not meant to know *everything*. I have discovered a few things that make a world of difference of learning, and that learning will carry on to shadow a person for the rest of their life. Most of this book/story/collection of essays will be in the first person, since I am the first person I am writing this for. I'll explain why.
The first lesson about math that I always remind myself of for each and every class, the teacher matters. Not just in Math either. It matters in computers, english, speech, engineering, electronics, physics. Having a good teacher makes all the difference in the world. A good teacher to me may not be a good teacher for someone else. A good teacher for me is able to convey ideas in a way that sticks. They get me excited about learning. I want to study and talk things over with other students.
My second lesson is that if I have a teacher I struggle to understand, has a personality that is bound to draw the students into conflict, or doesn't seem to have a mastery of the topic, I should drop that class right away. I should quit, even if it means more money or delaying my graduation. This is so rarely a case of being able to power through to get a good result, that finding another instructor or class is easily worth that trade off.
I have told myself, that many times, "This is math/computers/whatever. I can read the book and figure this out. I can do this." It is never that way. I can figure most of this stuff out on my own, but not in the time frame of a university course.
I am not special or gifted, but I am not a unique snowflake unlike all other snowflakes. I am like, at a guess, 90% of the people I went to school and university with. Nearly everybody struggled. Almost nobody internalized the lessons at a deep fundamental level. (Except Assembly Language, in my case. *That* was a fun topic, from every teacher, every course, and every processor. Assembly was where I really learned to love to code. I could have done that every day all the time.) For most of us, most of our classes did not embed themselves deep in the core of our being. 
In the engineering courses, electronics courses, math courses, physics courses, the lot of them, I have came up against systems of equations. Many I could solve the hard way. Many of my classmates who had already gone through linear algebra would say that the easy way came from there. They'd help me with the end result, but I would be lacking the foundations, and thus would never be able to deeply understand.

From the movie 'Outland'
“I want to find out if... well if they're right. There's a whole machine that works because everybody does what they are supposed to. And I found out... I was supposed to be something I didn't like. That's what's in the program. That's my rotten little part in the rotten machine. I don't like it. So I'm going to find out if they're right.”
O'Neil (S.Connery) revealing to Dr. Lazarus (F.Sternhagen) why he took his marshall job (https://www.moviequotes.com/s-movie/outland/)

Writing like this is not meant to be the way people learn math. This is the way I'm going to have a go at it. I believe that to do math well, a person needs to practice. There is a big difference between building a bridge and reading a book. I'm going to go through looking up what I know and think I know about matrices, from college algebra on up. I'll work out some exercises and share them (and where I found them of course!) I'll show where I mix things up and figure out where I went wrong. Teachers at the board don't like to make mistakes. They like to show how to work through a problem correctly, so as not to confuse the students. I know already that I dont' know, so I want to share how I get unlost.


I'm going to be using a lot of sources. Even Wikipedia. I'll keep a list at the end. One of the books I just started reading is Linear Algebra: Theory, Intuition, Code by Michael X. Cohen. (https://leanpub.com/linear_algebra) also available on Amazon Kindle and bookshops. It uses Numpy and MATLAB examples, which is exactly what I wanted to do.
Another good read for me was Introduction to Linear Algebra with NumPy by Soner Yıldırım. (https://towardsdatascience.com/introduction-to-linear-algebra-with-numpy-79adeb7bc060)
